- [Instructor] Now much like we did
for the build plugins I want to walk through
some of the most common reports that you may want to consider
when you are deciding how to build your Maven site.
Let's jump back into our web browser
on Maven.Apache.org and we're going to scroll down on the left
to our plugin section.
And then we're going to scroll down to the reporting section.
And the first one that I want to talk about
is this Changelog report.
If you are using SCM and you should be,
the Changelog plugin gives you everything
that you need to know about what changes
are included in your build.
Now if you're doing true CICD where every commit
to master becomes a build,
this is a little bit less valuable.
But if you are aggregating multiple changes
into a single build this becomes invaluable
because you need to know what's in every release.
And you may be doing nightly builds on a CICD
or per commit builds, but you want to still have
this aggregation function for your consistent releases.
This gives you a way to do that.
Once again on the usage page it'll tell you
what you need to do to get this running
but one thing to note is that you have
to actually configure your SCM and your POM.
And that's not something we've done to date
in this course because I didn't want to bring SCM
into the picture.
It's not very hard to do and if you're using Git
it's really very easy to set this up.
And really if you're using SVN it's not very hard either.
In fact the example here is using SVN.
But again this Changelog report
is very, very powerful and they give you
an example of what one would look like here on the page.
The next one that I want to jump into
is the Checkstyle report.
Now the Checkstyle report can be both
a build plugin and a reporting plugin.
And this is something that can be very valuable
to a team that wants to have consistent code
across all of its projects.
The Checkstyle report allows you to create rules
that you can then check your code against.
And this is all documented fairly well both
on the usage page as well as the examples pages
on how to actually get your Checkstyle to run
and generate a report that can then be used
to ensure that your developers are conforming
to your code standards that you have applied across
your entire organization.
What you'll see here is that it can be run
as a stand alone report or as part of your build
and published through your site.
I actually would recommend keeping
it with your site documentation
but you can do both if you choose to.
The next one that I want to bring up
is the Javadoc report.
And much like Checkstyle this can be run both in
and out of the report section.
So it can be a build plugin or a report plugin.
Of all of the report plugins themselves
the Javadoc maybe the single most useful report
for other developers.
As you might imagine this is going to take
and generate all of the Javadoc from your source code
and publish it through that very standard Javadoc process
into a report that can then be consumed by other developers
within the organization.
Or if you expose your Maven site outside your organization
they would of course have your Javadoc as well.
The usage here documents not only how
to configure this report but of course how
to customize it over on the left side in the examples.
Because Javadoc is nothing more than HTML
and of course you can customize that as well.
Again, this Javadoc is a very, very powerful tool.
I actually recommend doing two things.
One, generate your Javadoc as a JAR file
that can be deployed and you could do that
with a Javadoc plugin.
That way when you deploy your code
to your Maven repository other developers
can actually download your Javadoc straight
into their IDEs and they will get the Javadoc statement
to show up in the IDE itself.
The other thing that I recommend you do is always publish
it to your site that way someone can read
the Javadoc if they want to and they don't have
to actually download it into their IDE.
Now the final report that we're going to talk about
we've actually already seen and that's the Surefire report.
Next to the Javadoc report I believe
that this is the second most important report
that you can put into your Maven site.
Because this gives your upper level management
some sort of a comfort factor
that you're actually running tests.
And running tests is of course a very important thing
in a software development life cycle.
So this Surefire report not only lets people know
that you're running tests but lets you know
what your coverage looks like
as well as how you're testing it.
Because in reality the best way to figure out
how to use someone's code is to read their tests.
This will give them an indication of that through
the reporting and then they can go look
at the source code that matches that report.
So this is another one that I would always include
and this is the one that we've seen to date in this course.
Now as with the build plugins
there's other reporting plugins out there.
And there's third part ones as well.
Read through them and figure out which ones
are going to be most useful for you.